hello I'm Ben Brown welcome to verified
live 3 hours of breaking news let's
start in the Middle East and Israeli
tanks are now reported to have reached
the very center of Rafa The Heart of the
City in southern Gaza as Israel carries
out its most intense bombardment of Rafa
since the War Began hundreds of
Palestinian families who were already
dis displaced have fled temporary
shelters in Rafa Following air strikes
and tank Fire by Israeli forces
overnight well it all comes despite
International condemnation over that
Israeli air strike on Sunday which led
to a devastating fire at a refugee camp
killing 45 people including women and
children now the UN Security Council
will be discussing the situation in Gaza
later on well meanwhile the mil Israeli
military says it is investigating the
possibility it says that weapons stored
in a nearby compound caught fire from
its air strike on Sunday in Rafa here is
the Israel Defense Forces spokesman rear
Admiral Daniel hagari our munition alone
could not have ignited a fire of this
size i r repeat it our ammunition alone
size our investigation seeks to
determine what may have caused such a
large fire to ignite we are looking into
all possibilities including the option
that weapons stored in a compound next
to our Target which we did not know of
may have ignited as a result of the
strike as Daniel hagari of the IDF and
the IDF have promised a Swift and
transparent investigation into what
happened something which the UK foreign
secretary Lord Cameron has also called
for I think that uh what happened in
Rafa overnight really did did look very
very concerning very worrying and so
we're asking for that to be investigated
rapidly the Israelis have already said
it was a tragic mistake but we want to
see that properly investigated look what
I want to see is a stop in the fighting
we want a pause which has been offered
by the Israelis a hostage deal to Hamas
that would let prisoners out of Israeli
jails and have that pause because what
we need is to get the hostages out get
the aid in and have that stop in the
fighting which we can then turn into a
permanent sustainable ceasefire that's
what I want to see happen so that's the
foreign secretary Lord Cameron well our
a little earlier I spoke to our middle e
correspondent in Jerusalem Hugo PGA who
told me this is the first detailed
account we've had from the Israeli
military about their version of events
on
Sunday the Israeli authorities are under
uh you know a lot of pressure
International pressure after this attack
so today we heard from Danielle hagari a
spokesman for the Israeli military and I
think the message here in this briefing
was very clear we just heard from him
saying that uh the Israeli attack alone
could not have ignited this fire and
he's saying now that one of the
possibilities being explored is that uh
weapons being stored uh you know near uh
the target of this attack uh might have
caused this fire there was no evidence
of that uh he said uh that images posted
on social media uh from uh the aftermath
of the attack being analized by the
Israeli military and those images
according to him uh appear to show SA
explosions that he said uh might have
been triggered by those weapons that
were being stored uh in this site near
uh this um uh compound uh that was
targeted uh some other lines from uh
this briefing again uh he dismissed a
reports saying that this attack happened
uh in an area that had been designated
as a humanitarian Zone by the Israeli
military he said uh the target was uh
almost 2 km away from the uh
humanitarian Zone and he also said that
the target here was located 180 M away
from those STS so we know that uh after
this uh air strike uh there was this
huge Blaze uh at least 45 people were
killed as a result of this attack
including many women and and children
and again a lot of international
condemnation uh and human rights uh
organizations saying that despite what
the Israeli authorities have been saying
they know that there is you know a large
risk that you know large numbers of
people could be killed as a result of
these attacks because of the large
number of Palestinians who are now
seeking shelter in those parts of Rafa
that's Hugo baso there our middle EAS
correspondent in Jerusalem well